---
layout: post
title: Innovation Thru Diversity in Re-Booting the Web Of Trust
---
# Innovation Thru Diversity in Re-Booting the Web Of Trust

As a woman in tech, I am often reminded that the need for greater diversity in the industry has come under increased public scrutiny. Although I'm skeptical that the method of graphing demographics based on sex and race is necessary overall, diversity is often a positive feedback of widespread interest in society. Given that encryption and the cryptocurrencies are still minority communities themselves every additional person building on its infrastructure is valuable. But more valuable than a diversity of the types of people is a diversity in thought.

In biology, diversity exists to compete and evolve. A key metric of diversity in ideas, is in the number of competing companies selling that idea. On Angel List there are currently 775 listed bitcoin companies, and only 21 in PGP. Current encryption standards have changed very little in the past 20 years relative to cryptocurrencies. Due in part to previous patent protection, and in part due to a lack of perceived lack of value in the current implementations of the technology. This is not to say that a crypto solution to authenticity and reputation isn't needed, but rather that the appropriate solution that can drive network effects may have yet to emerge.

Web-of-trust models, applied to social media have done quite well. Twitter has been credited with an underlying web-of-trust model in the follower-follower "like" and "comment" relationship. Facebook and Linkedin both leverge the FOAF (Friend-Of-A-Friend) web-of-trust model. The next generation of personal encryption tools need to put real social interactions first, and become a more universal tool for communication and reputation.

##### 1. Reputation:
PGP has four levels of trust that the user can assign to another users' public key: unknown, marginal, full, and ultimate. But since the trust rating a user gives to public keys in their network is not publicly available to everyone else, reputation in signing keys is limited to a binary confirmation of signed or not signed once its on the server. Ideally, the user should have the ability to set the degree to which people could specify their trust. Who can rate me, and how specific can they be? A more robust reputation system would include the ability to endorse a person after a mutual signing of keys:

    "This is the same Alice I've known since 1999, when we started college together. 
    We worked on several projects together since then. She has read her fingerprint to me in person."
    [expand for the full signed statement]
    signed by g0449... twitter/malgorithms, github/malgorithms, etc.

##### 2. Identity-valdation:
Everything about security comes down to trust. How well can I trust that this public key is actually held by the proper owner? Currently PGP relies on the users for validating the identity of the people in their network. Usually this takes place face-to-face. But the ability to authenticate thru third parties while linking their online identities is a significant amount of value added. Keybase currently has the most developed implementation:

    // ♥ keybase id kidblondie
    ✔ public key fingerprint: 8A3D DB0E 024E 98A5 4C72 C204 E565 3818 E15F DC6E
    ✔ "anarchoass" on twitter: https://twitter.com/anarchoass/status/589536234466246657
    ✔ "kiaraRobles" on github: https://gist.github.com/6f5e17b8d03cbabec21d

##### 3. Decentralization
Given the innovation of the blockchain as a decentralized database I can imagine how a similar protocol could be used to maintain the identity and reputation information on a decentralized blockchain. Putting identity and reputation on a blockchain will ensure that the information comes from a specific user, to the intended recipient, and neither the message or the reputation they've established with each other has been tampered with.

If the goal of the web-of-trust is to establish and ensure the correct identity association with asymmetric cryptographic keys I think its more than achieved its goal. Nevertheless now that it has, we're compelled to ask what can be improved? The obvious solutions to mainstreaming web-of-trust communication includes making better software. The list includes more secure crypto for the browser, PGP encrypted messaging in mobile apps, and the capacity use our private keys for more than messaging. A more ambitious goal expands the meaning of the web-of-trust to include reputation, identity-validation, and decentralization. And most importantly competition in the verity of ways these goals are implemented.

References
----------

- ["ArXiv.org Cs ArXiv:1508.04868." [1508.04868] From Pretty Good To Great: Enhancing PGP Using Bitcoin and the Blockchain. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Oct. 2015.](http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.04868)
- ["Does Social Contact Matter? Modelling the Hidden Web of Trust Underlying Twitter∗." Marketing to the Social Web How Digital Customer Communities Build Your Business (2009): 207-17. Web.](http://www2013.org/companion/p981.pdf)
- ["Keep Web of Trust - Allow Endorsements." Weblog post. GitHub. N.p., n.d. Web. 04 Oct. 2015.](https://github.com/keybase/keybase-issues/issues/637)
